.TH Canto-fetch 1 "MAN_DATE" "Version MAN_VERSION" "Canto-fetch"

.SH NAME
Canto-fetch \- A quiet feed fetcher.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Canto-fetch is designed to be run through a cron job, every minute. Every time it's run, it checks the timestamp on each index file and updates the feed, if necessary. The format it produces is a simple UTF-8 encoded, NULL delimited text file on disk, readable by the canto client.

.SH GETTING STARTED
Canto-fetch is meant to be used through a cron, adding this line to your crontab will cause canto-fetch to poll every minute.

* * * * * canto-fetch

Alternatively, if you're unable/uncomfortable using cron, canto-fetch has a
background daemon mode so you can invoke it in your X session scripts. Just use

canto-fetch -b

.SH USAGE
These options correspond to options to the canto client.

.TP
-h / --help
Print usage and quit.

.TP
-v / --version
Print version and quit.

.TP
-V / --verbose
Output status while updating.

.TP
-d / --daemon
Continue to check for updates every minute. Mostly for debugging with -V, users
probably want -b to background.

.TP
-b / --background
Detach from the terminal (implies -d)

.TP
-f / --force
Force updates on all feeds, ignoring timestamps.

.TP
-C / --conf [PATH]
Set path to configuration file (default: ~/.canto/conf)

.TP
-F / --fdir [PATH]
Set path to feed directory (default: ~/.canto/feeds/)

.TP
-L / --log [PATH]
Set path to log (default: ~/.canto/fetchlog)

.TP
-S / --sdir [PATH]
Set the path to execurl scripts (default ~/.canto/scripts/)

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.canto/fetchlog
Canto-fetch log file.

.TP
.I ~/.canto/feeds/
This is the directory where canto-fetch records stories.

.SH BUGS
None known, but it's not outside of the realm of possibility =P.  

.SH HOMEPAGE
http://codezen.org/canto

.SH AUTHOR
Jack Miller <jack@codezen.org>
